# UniFi Endpoint Monitor
This module makes it possible to monitor end devices in the network and display various data in Symcon.

## Table of Contents

1. [Scope of functions](#1-scope of functions)
2. [Requirements](#2-requirements)
3. [Software installation](#3-software-installation)
4. [Setting up the instances in IP-Symcon](#4-setting-up-the-instances-in-ip-symcon)
5. [Version information](#5-version-information)

## 1. range of functions

* Support for UniFi CloudKey 1 (UC-CK)
* Support for UniFi CloudKey 2 (UCK-G2) and DreamMachine (UDM)
* Creation of devices to be monitored with name and MAC address 
* Creates one variable per device which can be used for automation or monitoring (Boolean)
* Polling of the controllers is time-controlled every xx seconds

## 2. requirements

- IP-Symcon version 5.5 or higher
- Local user (not owner with e-mail address!)

## 3. software installation

* Install the 'UniFi Presence Manager' module via the Module Store.
* Alternatively, add the following URL via the Module Control

## 4. set up the instances in IP-Symcon

 Under 'Add Instance' the 'UniFi Presence Manager' module can be found using the quick filter.  
	- Further information on adding instances in the [Documentation of the instances](https://www.symcon.de/service/dokumentation/konzepte/instanzen/#Instanz_hinzufügen)

Configuration page__:

**Type of controller**

As the APIs of CloudKey 1 and CloudKey2/DreamMachine differ, the controller can be selected here

**Username & Password**

Account with which the module connects to the controller

**Site**

Site name that is stored in the controller (default: "default").

ATTENTION: Do not confuse this with the site description, which can be changed in the controller GUI, for example!

The site name can be checked by clicking on "check Site Name".

**IP address and port**

For the DreamMachine the port is 443, for a controller it is 8443 by default. IP address of the CloudKey or the DreamMachine.

**Update frequency**

As the controller must be actively polled, you can enter a frequency here for how often this should happen. 

**MAC address**

The MAC address of the device to be monitored. This is best read from the controller.

**Type of connection**

Different information is available based on the type of connection. Most are generated by devices in the WLAN. 

**Network data**

Network data includes logical data such as IP address or host name. 

**Connection data**

Available physical data is provided here. For WLAN devices, this includes information on connection quality, last seen, uptime, channel, type of technology, SSID, attenuation, signal strength. 

**Transmission data**

For WLAN devices, information on transmitted data and packets is provided here.

**Debugging**

The module outputs various information in the debug area. 

## 5. version information

Version 1.2 - 27-12-2021
* New - Module available

Version 1.3 - 03-01-2022
* New - Unifi API access moved to its own function (better maintainability)
* Fix - Devices that are not connected to the network no longer generate errors

Version 1.31 - 01-10-2022
* Fix - If the connection quality is not sent, the value should be ignored

Version 1.5 - 03-12-2023
* New - UI tidied up